Hey folks! John Thompson Spring Framework
Guru here. So today, I'm going to
interview James Labocki from Red Hat. So
James is a friend of mine. He works with
Red Hat and he's actually one of the
product engineers over the OpenShift
product. So OpenShift is a container
orchestration platform. So it sits on top
of Kubernetes, which manages docker
containers. I'm pretty excited today
to have the time with James to talk
about docker. Even though in the course,
we're looking at just using docker
containers. It's kind of introductory to
using docker containers. This is going to
give you some insight how docker
containers are used in the enterprise,
why enterprises are going with docker
containers, what makes it so powerful. And
James has some great insights. Not only
into how Docker is being utilized but how
tools around docker and how companies
and enterprises are using docker
everyday for their mission critical
application. So without further ado, I'm
going to introduce James Labocki.
We're gonna switch over to the interview
I just did with them and a lot of great
content coming up for you.
Alright folks!
Thompson here Spring Framework Guru. I
have James Labocki from Red Hat with me.
So James, can you tell me about your role
at Red Hat? What you do there? Yeah. So I'm
the senior manager of product management
in the integrated solutions business
unit so I work on basically the
combination of our technologies from
open shift our container platform to
OpenStack team structure service and
cloud management technologies like cloud
forms and ansible. Okay, it's a quite the
scope there. So the course I'm teaching
is on Docker and it's really for
beginner level type people. And just
getting them up to speed on Docker. So
what are you seeing in the marketplace
as far as adoption of docker containers?
Yeah, so certainly there's a lot of
hype. If you go look out
there about containers, you know
everybody wants to start containerizing
their applications. So we're seeing
pretty good option now. So we have our
commercial offering for containers at
Red Hat, that's called Open Shift. So
that's basically what people would buy
from us, when they're looking to run
their containers. And we're seeing very
good traction in a number of industries.
Whether its financial services,
healthcare and a bunch of other
verticals. We're seeing quite a bit of
take. I mean I'm starting smaller
to how you would imagine from you know
the unix/linux move or you know any kind
of technology adoption curve so you're
seeing it move into development where
people are kicking the tires
understanding what they want to do and
now it's eventually making its way into
production right now many of our
customers. Okay so one of the problems
I think Java folks are gonna have is
they're looking at this docker container
kind of being like a VM and why do I
wanna run a JVM inside of a container
and deploy stuff that way. So why are
companies going that direction? Why
containerize a JVM and run that out
there. Yes, I think you know when you look
at traditional virtualization, what it
did was, it abstracted the operating
system away from the hardware. So
traditional virtualization really helps
operations teams because they could
separate the lifecycle of their hardware
from their operating systems. So I could
take maybe if let's say I'm running
Red Hat Enterprise Linux, I could then take
one version of Red Hat Enterprise Linux
6 and I could run it on whether it's
VMware or RMKDM based virtualization or
hyper-v. I could
separate the OS from the hardware. So if
I could refresh my hardware faster and I
don't necessarily need to refresh my
operating system. So my applications
don't need to change and it creates a
nice separation. What containers are
providing is similar functionality but
at the application layer. So now, my
applications can be kind of almost
decoupled and have their own life cycles
away from my operating system. This
doesn't mean that the certification of a
running container to the operating
system is important still because
they're still you know some ABI that
needs to be maintained between things
running in the container to the
operating system running on below. And
you know, you need that tested and
certified. But it does certainly mean
that you'll be able to it's basically
allowing the developer in the operations
teams to have a common format, that they
can pass between each other and not have
to worry about the versions of the
underlying operating system potentially.
Okay, any security leaks in containers
that we need to be worried about? Yeah so
definitely, I think you know there's a
there are a lot of you know
security ramifications of leveraging
containers. One of the things that we're
doing, so if you look at the history of
containers, they're nothing new, right.
They've been around since you know the
late seventies. I think with tru in
Unix.
So what docker really brought to the
table was it provided a common package
format. So you can actually have an
archive that everyone can
understand and then they also put API's
around it to basically make it easily to
start/stop these archives basically of
your application. Plus, it's basically
used as like a Union file system, right,
so it kind of layers a bunch of file
system changes when you do a build. And
then it pact as your binaries and
libraries in there. So yeah, absolutely
they're one of the things you can
imagine is if you could have dozens of
VMs running on a physical host, you
could have hundreds of containers
running on you know a VM now. So that
what that does is basically you have a
propagation of potentially libraries and
binaries and securities across those
environments. So that's where our tools
that we have, where you can actually scan
containers to container scanning both
during the build process, as well as all
the way out to production when they're
running and make sure that you're not
you don't have you know something with
heartbleed or you know another
vulnerability in it running in production.
Okay, so how does it work? I mean, it
seems kind of bizarre that you can run a
few dozen VMs on a Chuck Hardware versus
hundreds of containers. I mean, why
is that? What is it ... Yeah, so
basically, if you look at it,
typically, the way you split up a VM is
that the lowest amount of CPU you could
give a virtual machine as a core,
what's great is with Linux names with
namespaces in the Linux kernel and with
technologies like cgroups
which is control groups, it provides fine
great resource control of your hardware
even in a more granular fashion. So I
could divvy up my might and do time
sharing. It's split my CPU into a
thousand shares, and then give you know
we know take one course put it up into a
thousand shares in hand a hundred shares
to one container and fifty to another
and thirty to another and that's all.
Linux namespaces and C groups taking
care of that quality of service at the
kernel level. So that's kernel will
actually do this and split this up into
there. Sounds like it's gonna be
challenging to troubleshoot performance
stuff on this. I've never remember the
days and he just made vmstat and you're
good to go.
Yeah, that is absolutely the other thing
that we're working on pretty heavily is
instrumenting the kernel with the proper
instrumentation and then ultimately it
will help you do that. Okay, so with the shared space and the shared
memory, how does that work with the JVM?
If I have a JVM running in two different
containers, so I have two JVMs running,
are they're sharing memory at all? For
those two execution of that? So yeah
so on. There's multiple levels of memory
sharing that could be happening. But
primarily at this point, they may be
sharing memory at the VM layer. So for
example, if I have multiple copies of
you know there's something called a for
example in a VM there's something called
kernel same page merging, it would
basically take multiple copies of memory
that are the same and you duplicate them
in a memory to save a memory footprint
and that would happen based on whatever
you however you set up the virtual
machine and the hypervisor configuration
in your virtualization. The container
layer, I don't believe we're doing that
yet or purging memory. Okay, all right cool because
spring applications are as many things
but a memory efficient is not one of
them.
Yeah absolutely. Let's chew up some
memory when you're running it in VMs.
We'll get your class
to learn some notes. Maybe not reactive in
spring 5. Alright alright. That's right.
I have to note. So in the course,
I'm going to be teaching them to
fabricate plug-in and in my opinion
fabricate seems to be the most capable
plug-in out there. There's a number of
flavors out there, but as far as what I
want to be doing in a Java life cycle, as
far as like building projects and being
able to use docker containers. Not only
build them and publish them. But I also
want to use them in an integration test.
Are there any other maven or Gradle
plugins, I should be looking at? Or is
forever great, like the one right now?
Yeah so the fabricate certainly, so for
those of you that don't know, so
fabricate is basically an upstream
community that is actually run and
sponsored by Red Hat. And there's a
couple of engineers that were from the
fuze team, that are actually working
there now. And so yeah, that's basically a
microservices. Their goal is to build
kind of an open source micro-services platform.
A lot of that work ends up going into
open shift. So you're actually going to
see a lot of those
technologies, basically running directly
on open shift through the commercial
platform. That's primarily where our
investments are in there. I'm not aware
of any others in the community side for
Java developers. Not safe if there aren't
true. You know Google's of the world and
others might be developing things as
well. But the one I'm aware of is
definitely our great site. Okay yeah. That
definitely seem to be the most robust
out there. There are several options. I
didn't even look at the Gradle ones, but
I mean maven is the deal workhorse for
Java builds in fabricate and seem to
have a clear lead in the space. So you
mentioned open shift. And so help us make
the leap here, from running a little web
server and a docker container out Linux
OS to what is this thing called open shift.
Yeah so essentially, open shift is our
container platform. So when you want to
start running containers at scale,
it's pretty simple to run. You know, build
a docker file on your machine locally
and run it. But when you actually want to
start scaling that to you know
multicontainer applications, and then
scaling them globally, that's where
open shift comes in. And so which of just based
on, it provides both price Linux the
docker runtime and also provides
kubernetes. So kubernetes is a project
that was initially started by Google. So
the folks behind you know, if you don't
know, every time you log into Gmail for
example, that's actually running in a
container. So Google stops and starts
billions of containers a day.They're
probably the largest scale container
deployment that we know of. And so, when
they started a container orchestration
project, we definitely doll in and
partnered with them on that. And so
basically, what open shift provides you
is the kubernetes platform, which allows
you orchestrate container deployments. So
if you want to deploy, it basically has a
concept of something called a pod. And
then that services and routes. So you
can actually expose around externally
about you know both a container
application to the world. You can do
things like you know upgrade your
containers and they have a life cycle
around them so that when they move into
production you can do rolling upgrades
and all those pieces as well as a bunch
of capabilities around taking your
source source code and actually building
an image automatically through there.
Whether that's plugging into an existing
pipeline or leveraging our own source
damage capabilities in their build edges.
Tell me a little bit more about the
source image. I was going to work with
the Java. Yeah so there's a
number different patterns. So one of the
containers that so when you deploy
openshift you have a number of
applications. You could launch out of the
bag, right out of the box. And one of them
is a Jenkins image. You can actually
deploy Jenkins inside there and leverage
that. There's another basically we
provide a number of pre-built images in
a registry so that our source image
ready. So you can literally put your
github repo in, when you're launching
your new application provider via that
repo. And we will take the source code
from that github repo. We will run a
basically a docker build and build that
image and put it in the registry and
then also launch it for you. And you can
go directly to your running application
and every commit you make to your
registry, you can actually build a hook
to actually go ahead and kick off the
new build every time. So sweet. So I can
just check in and then they'll go
through and automatically deploy new
docker containers to my target environment?
Exactly and we actually have a container
development kit. So there's a bunch of
flavors of open shift. One of them is
OpenShift online. So you can learn I
could like open shift out redhat.com.
That's a hosted service that we run and
you can go launch a couple of containers
for free on there. A couple of apps for
free. I forget what the limit is. And
get started. If you want to actually run
it on your workstation, you can download
our container development kit, CDK. Just
look up at that container, CDK and
it'll give you a prebuilt VM with
openshift on it and ready to go out of
box. Okay cool cool. I am running out of
questions. So is there any other things
that you can think about that be
interested a job developer in the docker
world or even OpenShift? Yeah. Just one
one last thing to note is one of the
things that we're seeing a big uptake on
is the ansible from the automation
standpoint. So a lot of people, a lot of
our end users are not wanting to buy
into a single way of doing things or
they want an automation language that's
familiar between both development and
operations. We're seeing a big uptake
there. And the ansible container as a
product that we have, that allows you to
if you're familiar with ansible
playbooks, I'm not sure reading the your
audience would be, but if they are
familiar with it, they could literally
take their same skills of
authoring ansible playbooks and those
can generate docker images for them and
that isn't a clean path to running in
kubernetes as well. Okay, so the ansible
container, is that the same thing as a
docker container or is that that different?
The ansible container is basically just a
way of taking ansible playbooks and
creating docker containers from those
ansible playbooks in a structured
fashion. Okay okay so it's not a
competing image format or anything like
that. All right cool. Yeah, all right James,
I'd like to thank you for your time
today. Definitely appreciate you take the
time to talk about docker and all the
offerings of Red Hat around it. So a lot
of exciting stuff going on.  Yeah cool!
Thanks for the time and uh best of luck
to your class. All right thanks James!
Cheers! Okay, that was an awesome little
interview that we did with James there.
Definitely a wealth of
knowledge. It gave us a lot of insight. I
found some of the stuff very interesting.
Especially like with fabricate and how
Red Hat is contributed fabricate, in the
fabricate plug in. So it's really
becoming critical to how we utilize our
build processes with docker. Now if
you're interested in
learning more about docker as a Java
developer and why you want to be able to
use this technology, I am producing a
course on it. I did this interview with
James for the course. And if you want to
learn more about the course, go over to
my website springframework.guru and you
can learn more about the course there.
And in the course that we're doing, a lot
of fun stuff. We not only start through
the basis of a docker to the spool of
containers and how to build your own
images and containers and docker. But we
show you how as a Java developer you can
actually start utilizing this technology.
So we're gonna do some fun stuff in the
course. Like bring up a web service like
a web application and have a report to a
micro service over RabbitMQ and
ultimately write a transaction down to a
MySQL database. Now I'm going to show you
how to use maven and docker containers
to bring up containers for all that
infrastructure and run integration tests
constant. So imagine me I'll do that from
an Jenkins build server to bring up a
rabbitmq container, a MySQL container, a
micro service, that's completely
independent of the project that you're
working on but you want to run a
full-blown integration test. So these are
some of the fun exciting things that you
can do with docker. Just as a developer
not as a DevOps guy or as an Operations
guy. So for us as developers docker does
open up a lot of great opportunities. And
in the course that I'm teaching, I show
you exactly how to use docker to
leverage some best practices such as
integration tests. So again my website is
SpringFramework.guru. You can
learn more about the course there.